You may already know that there are a lot
of important parts inside a desktop computer,
but what exactly do they do?
In this video, we're going to take a look
inside, to show you the various components
that make a computer work.
Every computer has a large circuit board called
a motherboard.
This contains some of the most important parts
of your computer such as the CPU, also called
the Central Processing Unit or processor.
The CPU is sometimes called the brain of the
computer, because it processes information
and carries out commands.
Since it tends to get hot, it's covered by
a piece of metal called a heat sink, which
draws heat away from the processor.
The motherboard also contains your computer's
RAM, or Random Access Memory.
This is the short-term memory that your computer
uses whenever it's performing calculations.
However, you can't store your files there,
because the RAM is cleared when you turn off
the computer.
For long-term storage, your computer uses
a hard drive, which keeps all of its data
even when the computer is turned off.
Most hard drives use a magnetic platter to
store data, but many newer computers have
solid-state drives, which are faster and more
durable, but also more expensive.
If you want to upgrade your computer, you
can add expansion cards to the motherboard's
expansion slots.
You can add a video card to get better graphics
performance, or you can add a wireless card
to connect to your wireless home network.
Of course, your computer's components need
electricity to run.
The power supply unit is designed to take
the power from the wall outlet and send it
to all of the different components that need
power.
A desktop computer is a pretty complex machine,
but now that you've seen what goes on inside,
it should be a little less mysterious.